I'll walk you through this in plain steps — no prior SQL knowledge needed. The idea: keep everything your script already does, and just add a few lines that also save each row into a SQL Server table.
Step 1: Install SQL Server (if you don't have it)

Download SQL Server Express (free) from Microsoft's site.
Download SSMS (SQL Server Management Studio) — this is the tool you'll use to look at your data, like Excel but for databases.
During SQL Server install, note the server name (usually localhost\SQLEXPRESS).

Step 2: Create the database and table
Open SSMS, connect to your server, click "New Query", and run this:SQL script to create database and table for OI recorderSQL script to create database and table for OI recorderHow to run it:

Highlight just the CREATE DATABASE part → click Execute (▶) → wait for "Commands completed successfully".
Then highlight everything from USE OI_Recorder; down → Execute again.

Step 3: Install the Python-to-SQL driver
In your command prompt:
pip install pyodbc
You also need the "ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server" installed on Windows — if you have SQL Server installed, you likely already have it. If pyodbc complains later about a missing driver, download it from Microsoft (search "ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server download").
Step 4: A small helper module to do the saving
This keeps the SQL code separate from your main script, so it's easy to manage.Standalone SQL Server logger moduleStandalone SQL Server logger moduleStep 5: Plug it into your existing script
Just 3 small edits to oi_recorder_pro_equity.py:
1) Near the top, with your other imports (around line 60):
pythonimport db_logger
2) Right before your while running: loop starts (around line 1125), add:
pythondb_logger.connect()
3) Inside the loop, right after this existing block (around line 1161):
python        if csv_writer is not None:
            csv_writer.writerow(oi_log[-1])
            csv_fh.flush()
add:
python        db_logger.insert_row(ts_str, m)
4) Find where the script handles Ctrl+C / shutdown (search for where it closes the CSV file or prints "stopped") and add:
pythondb_logger.close()
That's it — no other changes needed. Your Excel writing, CSV backup, and everything else keeps working exactly as before; SQL Server just becomes a third place the data goes.
Step 6: Test it

Run your script for ~30 seconds.
In SSMS, run:

sql   SELECT TOP 20 * FROM OI_Recorder.dbo.OI_Log ORDER BY id DESC;

You should see your latest rows appear, with log_time timestamps a few seconds apart.

A couple of things worth knowing

If SQL Server isn't running (service stopped), db_logger.connect() just prints a warning — your recorder won't crash, it'll keep writing to Excel/CSV as normal.
Every 5-second insert is one tiny INSERT statement — SQL Server handles thousands of these per second, so there's no risk of it falling behind your recorder.
Later, once comfortable, you can query things like "average PCR every minute" directly in SQL instead of Excel — that's the real payoff of moving to a database.
